docs/project_overview.md, before:

# 🧱 CurioSwipe – Project Overview

> **Note:** This project is being used as a learning pad by a beginner (absolute zero experience) in Android app development. All steps, explanations, and troubleshooting are written with that context in mind. 
>
> **Development Context:**
> - Code is developed and executed on a remote Linux (Oracle OCI) VM, accessed via SSH from a Windows laptop running VS Code.
> - The user may want to run the app on a local Android device or emulator on their Windows machine, not on the remote Linux box.
>
> Please provide detailed, step-by-step guidance for every next action, considering this setup.

CurioSwipe is a mobile application that delivers swipeable, curiosity-driven topics (randomized or interest-based), optionally with text-to-speech audio playback. Designed to be used while commuting — even with Android Auto — it's a "snackable curiosity companion" built for modern users.

---

## ✅ Project Summary

| Component     | Description                                     |
|---------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| **Goal**      | Deliver engaging, short topics on swipe         |
| **Extras**    | Audio playback, interest curation, geo-aware    |
| **Modes**     | Swipeable cards, hands-free via Android Auto    |

---

## 🔹 Backend

- **Framework**: [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/)  
- **API Layer**: Django REST Framework (DRF)  
- **Language**: Python  
- **Key Features**:
  - Admin dashboard out of the box
  - Token-auth-enabled API endpoints
  - ORM for easy DB access
  - Swagger endpoint exists at `/swagger/` but is currently not functional.

---

## 🔹 Database

- **Engine**: Oracle Autonomous Database (ADB)
- **Schemas**:
  - `curioswipe_dev` – development and testing (created)
  - `curioswipe_prod` – production usage (created)
- **Driver**: [`oracledb`](https://pypi.org/project/oracledb/) (preferred) or `cx_Oracle`
- **Why Oracle?**:
  - Already in use (e.g., trivia app)
  - High performance
  - Avoids SQLite/PostgreSQL switching

---

## 🔹 Hosting

- **Cloud Provider**: Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI)
- **Environment**:
  - ARM-based Compute instance (Ubuntu)
  - Oracle ADB integrated
- **Deployment Plan**:
  - Local testing using Django dev server
  - Future move to `gunicorn + nginx` for production

---

## 🔹 Android Mobile App

- **Language**: Kotlin
- **UI Framework**: Jetpack Compose
- **Networking**: Retrofit or Ktor
- **Audio**: Android Text-to-Speech (TTS)
- **Key Goals**:
  - Swipeable UI for topics
  - Interest selection screen
  - Android Auto compatibility (voice playback mode)

---

## 🔸 Optional Future Enhancements

- **Personalization**:
  - User interest categories
  - Geo-location relevance
  - Context-aware curation
- **External Content Sources**:
  - Wikipedia / Wikidata
  - News APIs
  - OpenAI APIs (for summarization or generation)
- **Analytics**: Basic usage tracking

---

## 🚦 Current Status

- Django backend project scaffolded under `backend/curioswipe/`.
- Dev server accessible on port `9003` and confirmed accessible via `http://129.154.40.152:9003/`.
- Oracle Autonomous Database schemas (`curioswipe_dev` and `curioswipe_prod`) are created and integrated.
- All migrations applied successfully; new tables verified using SQL Developer.
- `.env` file added for secure storage of database credentials.
- `settings.py` updated to dynamically load environment variables using `environ`.
- Dependencies installed from `requirements.txt` to ensure compatibility.
- API endpoints implemented for `topics` and `categories` with full CRUD functionality.
- Swagger endpoint exists at `/swagger/` but is currently not functional.
- **Android App Development Progress**:
  - Gradle installed and initialized for the Android project.
  - Basic project structure created (`build.gradle`, `settings.gradle`, etc.).
  - Next steps involve setting up the Android app structure using Kotlin and Jetpack Compose.

---

## 🛠️ Next Steps

1. **Mobile App Development**
   - Scaffold the Android app using Kotlin and Jetpack Compose.
   - Integrate Retrofit or Ktor for API communication.

2. **Backend Enhancements**
   - Add token-based authentication for API endpoints.
   - Implement filtering and pagination for `/api/topics/` and `/api/categories/` endpoints.

3. **Testing**
   - Perform end-to-end testing between the backend and mobile app.
   - Verify API responses and database interactions.

4. **Documentation**
   - Update README.md and tech-stack.md with recent changes.
   - Document API usage and endpoints for developers.

---

## ✅ Initial Setup

**Ingress Rule:**  
*For development servers, we are using 9000 series ports - like 9001, 9002.  
So, selected 9003 port for curioswipe development server*  
**Steps to Add Ingress Rule for Port 9003 in OCI**  
→ Log in to Oracle Cloud Console → Sign in  
→ Navigate to Compute → Instances  
→ Find and click on your instance (the one with IP `129.154.40.152`).  
→ Find the Primary VNIC  
→ In the instance details, look for the "Primary VNIC" and click on it.  
→ Go to Subnet Details → In the VNIC details, click on the subnet name (this will take you to the subnet details).  
→ Find Security Lists → In the subnet details, you’ll see a section for "Security Lists".  
→ Click on the security list name (usually something like `Default Security List for ...`).  
→ Add Ingress Rule → Refer screenshots below
![alt text](image.png)
![alt text](image-1.png)

- **Configure IPTABLES on VM**  
    ```
    ubuntu@whatever:~/projects/curioswipe/backend$ sudo iptables -I INPUT   -m state --state NEW -p tcp --dport 9003 -j ACCEPT 
    ```
- **Python Environment:**  
    ```
    python3 -m venv backend/venv
    source backend/venv/bin/activate
    pip install django djangorestframework oracledb
    ```

- **Django Project Scaffold:**  
    ```
    source backend/venv/bin/activate
    django-admin startproject curioswipe backend/curioswipe
    python backend/manage.py migrate
    ```

- **Settings:**  
  - `ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['*']` in `backend/curioswipe/settings.py`

- **Run Dev Server:**  
    ```
    python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:9003
    ```
    Access the page via: http://129.154.40.152:9003/

---

## 🔹 Oracle ADB Schemas

- `curioswipe_dev` and `curioswipe_prod` schemas have been created in Oracle Autonomous Database (ADB) with password `Offline@1235`.
- Both have been granted CONNECT, RESOURCE, and object creation privileges.

### 🗒️ Executed Oracle SQL Commands

The following SQL commands were executed to set up the schemas and privileges:

```sql
-- Create development user/schema
CREATE USER curioswipe_dev IDENTIFIED BY "Offline@1235"
DEFAULT TABLESPACE data
QUOTA UNLIMITED ON data;

GRANT CONNECT, RESOURCE TO curioswipe_dev;
GRANT CREATE SESSION, CREATE TABLE, CREATE VIEW, CREATE SEQUENCE, CREATE PROCEDURE TO curioswipe_dev;

-- Create production user/schema
CREATE USER curioswipe_prod IDENTIFIED BY "Offline@1235";

ALTER USER curioswipe_prod DEFAULT TABLESPACE data;
ALTER USER curioswipe_prod QUOTA UNLIMITED ON data;

GRANT CONNECT, RESOURCE TO curioswipe_prod;
GRANT CREATE SESSION, CREATE TABLE, CREATE VIEW, CREATE SEQUENCE, CREATE PROCEDURE TO curioswipe_prod;
```

Commit message:

feat: initialize Android app project in mobile/ and update project overview

docs/project_overview.md, after:

# 🧱 CurioSwipe – Project Overview

> **Note:** This project is being used as a learning pad by a beginner (absolute zero experience) in Android app development. All steps, explanations, and troubleshooting are written with that context in mind. 
>
> **Development Context:**
> - Code is developed and executed on a remote Linux (Oracle OCI) VM, accessed via SSH from a Windows laptop running VS Code.
> - The user may want to run the app on a local Android device or emulator on their Windows machine, not on the remote Linux box.
>
> Please provide detailed, step-by-step guidance for every next action, considering this setup.

CurioSwipe is a mobile application that delivers swipeable, curiosity-driven topics (randomized or interest-based), optionally with text-to-speech audio playback. Designed to be used while commuting — even with Android Auto — it's a "snackable curiosity companion" built for modern users.

---

## ✅ Project Summary

| Component     | Description                                     |
|---------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| **Goal**      | Deliver engaging, short topics on swipe         |
| **Extras**    | Audio playback, interest curation, geo-aware    |
| **Modes**     | Swipeable cards, hands-free via Android Auto    |

---

## 🔹 Backend

- **Framework**: [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/)  
- **API Layer**: Django REST Framework (DRF)  
- **Language**: Python  
- **Key Features**:
  - Admin dashboard out of the box
  - Token-auth-enabled API endpoints
  - ORM for easy DB access
  - Swagger endpoint exists at `/swagger/` but is currently not functional.

---

## 🔹 Database

- **Engine**: Oracle Autonomous Database (ADB)
- **Schemas**:
  - `curioswipe_dev` – development and testing (created)
  - `curioswipe_prod` – production usage (created)
- **Driver**: [`oracledb`](https://pypi.org/project/oracledb/) (preferred) or `cx_Oracle`
- **Why Oracle?**:
  - Already in use (e.g., trivia app)
  - High performance
  - Avoids SQLite/PostgreSQL switching

---

## 🔹 Hosting

- **Cloud Provider**: Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI)
- **Environment**:
  - ARM-based Compute instance (Ubuntu)
  - Oracle ADB integrated
- **Deployment Plan**:
  - Local testing using Django dev server
  - Future move to `gunicorn + nginx` for production

---

## 🔹 Android Mobile App

- **Language**: Kotlin
- **UI Framework**: Jetpack Compose
- **Networking**: Retrofit or Ktor
- **Audio**: Android Text-to-Speech (TTS)
- **Key Goals**:
  - Swipeable UI for topics
  - Interest selection screen
  - Android Auto compatibility (voice playback mode)

---

## 🔹 Android Mobile App (NEW)

- **Project created in Android Studio (June 2025)**
- **Location**: `mobile/` folder in the repo
- **Language**: Kotlin
- **UI Framework**: Jetpack Compose (selected during project setup)
- **Build**: Initial build successful in Android Studio
- **Setup**: Project opened in a dedicated Android Studio window for focused development
- **Next Steps**:
  - Explore project structure and understand key files
  - Run the default app on an emulator or device
  - Plan integration with backend API

---

## 🔸 Optional Future Enhancements

- **Personalization**:
  - User interest categories
  - Geo-location relevance
  - Context-aware curation
- **External Content Sources**:
  - Wikipedia / Wikidata
  - News APIs
  - OpenAI APIs (for summarization or generation)
- **Analytics**: Basic usage tracking

---

## 🚦 Current Status

- Django backend project scaffolded under `backend/curioswipe/`.
- Dev server accessible on port `9003` and confirmed accessible via `http://129.154.40.152:9003/`.
- Oracle Autonomous Database schemas (`curioswipe_dev` and `curioswipe_prod`) are created and integrated.
- All migrations applied successfully; new tables verified using SQL Developer.
- `.env` file added for secure storage of database credentials.
- `settings.py` updated to dynamically load environment variables using `environ`.
- Dependencies installed from `requirements.txt` to ensure compatibility.
- API endpoints implemented for `topics` and `categories` with full CRUD functionality.
- **Android app project initialized in `mobile/` and ready for development.**

---

## 🛠️ Next Steps

1. **Mobile App Development**
   - Scaffold the Android app using Kotlin and Jetpack Compose.
   - Integrate Retrofit or Ktor for API communication.

2. **Backend Enhancements**
   - Add token-based authentication for API endpoints.
   - Implement filtering and pagination for `/api/topics/` and `/api/categories/` endpoints.

3. **Testing**
   - Perform end-to-end testing between the backend and mobile app.
   - Verify API responses and database interactions.

4. **Documentation**
   - Update README.md and tech-stack.md with recent changes.
   - Document API usage and endpoints for developers.

---

## ✅ Initial Setup

**Ingress Rule:**  
*For development servers, we are using 9000 series ports - like 9001, 9002.  
So, selected 9003 port for curioswipe development server*  
**Steps to Add Ingress Rule for Port 9003 in OCI**  
→ Log in to Oracle Cloud Console → Sign in  
→ Navigate to Compute → Instances  
→ Find and click on your instance (the one with IP `129.154.40.152`).  
→ Find the Primary VNIC  
→ In the instance details, look for the "Primary VNIC" and click on it.  
→ Go to Subnet Details → In the VNIC details, click on the subnet name (this will take you to the subnet details).  
→ Find Security Lists → In the subnet details, you’ll see a section for "Security Lists".  
→ Click on the security list name (usually something like `Default Security List for ...`).  
→ Add Ingress Rule → Refer screenshots below
![alt text](image.png)
![alt text](image-1.png)

- **Configure IPTABLES on VM**  
    ```
    ubuntu@whatever:~/projects/curioswipe/backend$ sudo iptables -I INPUT   -m state --state NEW -p tcp --dport 9003 -j ACCEPT 
    ```
- **Python Environment:**  
    ```
    python3 -m venv backend/venv
    source backend/venv/bin/activate
    pip install django djangorestframework oracledb
    ```

- **Django Project Scaffold:**  
    ```
    source backend/venv/bin/activate
    django-admin startproject curioswipe backend/curioswipe
    python backend/manage.py migrate
    ```

- **Settings:**  
  - `ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['*']` in `backend/curioswipe/settings.py`

- **Run Dev Server:**  
    ```
    python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:9003
    ```
    Access the page via: http://129.154.40.152:9003/

---

## 🔹 Oracle ADB Schemas

- `curioswipe_dev` and `curioswipe_prod` schemas have been created in Oracle Autonomous Database (ADB) with password `Offline@1235`.
- Both have been granted CONNECT, RESOURCE, and object creation privileges.

### 🗒️ Executed Oracle SQL Commands

The following SQL commands were executed to set up the schemas and privileges:

```sql
-- Create development user/schema
CREATE USER curioswipe_dev IDENTIFIED BY "Offline@1235"
DEFAULT TABLESPACE data
QUOTA UNLIMITED ON data;

GRANT CONNECT, RESOURCE TO curioswipe_dev;
GRANT CREATE SESSION, CREATE TABLE, CREATE VIEW, CREATE SEQUENCE, CREATE PROCEDURE TO curioswipe_dev;

-- Create production user/schema
CREATE USER curioswipe_prod IDENTIFIED BY "Offline@1235";

ALTER USER curioswipe_prod DEFAULT TABLESPACE data;
ALTER USER curioswipe_prod QUOTA UNLIMITED ON data;

GRANT CONNECT, RESOURCE TO curioswipe_prod;
GRANT CREATE SESSION, CREATE TABLE, CREATE VIEW, CREATE SEQUENCE, CREATE PROCEDURE TO curioswipe_prod;
```
````
